---
title: Books I read in 2014

date: 2015-3-10

author: Tyler
---

**Turn the Ship Around!: A True Story of Turning Followers into
Leaders**  -  Written by: L. David Marquet - This book is the story of a
US Navy officer who was trained to command a nuclear submarine. After
giving an impossible order he was surprised that his crew still tried to
follow it. When asked why they didn\'t challenge his order they
responded "because you told me to." It was at this point he started his
idea of bottom up leadership. L. David Marquet is a solid story teller.
I enjoyed the classic set up story, build characters, establish
conflict, come to resolution. I find this classic story arc very
beneficial in a book that has a pretty heavy self improvement theme. The
tempo and character development encouraged me to imagine life from each
characters point of view, and then looked for parallels in each
characters to myself and people I worked with and for.

**The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business** -
Written by: Charles Duhigg -  If you were ever curious about why you
automatically reach for the mouth wash after brushing your teeth, or why
you can't pick up a more health exercise routine, this book will walk
you you thought why that is. Spurred by the idea that "goals" are over
rated, and habits accomplish more then a goal ever would I picked up
this book. This book creates a good mental foundation on why habits are
important, and the basics of a good feedback loop in habit formation.

**Design Is a Job** - Written by: Mike Monteiro  - I first heard Mike
Monteiro's creative mornings talk "f\*ck you pay me" and thought it was
awesome, but in true Mine Monteiro fashion was a bit brash. I was
worried that this book would be a cross between his twitter feed and
that talk. This book really addressed a lot of weaknesses I see in the
design world. The whole book can be summarized with the idea that
designers aren\'t artists, we are employees. As much as developers need
to read Clean Coder, designers need to read "Design IS a job." He brakes
down several errors that most designers make, and I admit I was guilty
of several of them.

**The Clean Coder: A Code of Conduct for Professional Programmers** -
 Written by: Robert C. Martin - I have been recommended this book for
quite some time, and after reading it I can understand why. Uncle Bob
breaks down the job of programming and addresses most of the common
personal issues that he sees with developers. Taking yourself
professionally is so important to both your quality of work, and your
perceived quality of work.

**I Will Teach You to Be Rich - Written by: Ramit Sethi** -  In this
book Remit walks you through his program that will enable you to crawl
out of debt and into a life with more financial freedom. I found this
book pretty awesome, When every I find myself recommending this book to
other people the first hurdle I have to over come is the name. This
book, and Ramit's style as a whole to finance isn't "cut the lattes" its
very much an attitude of put your big rocks in first. He using Pareto
principle he encourages readers to figure out what you want, and what is
costing you money, then rationalize those things. If you want to eat out
with your friends all the time, but are spending all your money on a
car/house, your doing it wrong. My one worry with this book is one of
the things Remit himself loves about it, he doesn't encourage users to
adjust spending to reach their financial goals, he instead encourages
them to make more money. Which is fine, but its important to understand
that by increasing your income you are just running faster on your
personal hedonic treadmill,

**Storm Front: The Dresden Files, Book 1** -  Written by: Jim
Butcher - (fiction) Harry Dresen is A professional wizard based out of
Chicago. And sadly for him, his business is floundering. The first book
in this series fined harry put up against a dark wizard - I am not much
of a mystery or fiction reader, but with this book I found myself
sneaking away to follow the story even farther. I look forward to
reading forward in the series, luckily Butcher has given me plenty of
runway to catch up on!

**Ready, Fire, Aim: Zero to \$100 Million in No Time Flat**- Written
by: Michael Masterson - If you are looking for an agile product book
Ready, Fire, Aim is just that. It encourages readers to sell above all
else. As something I struggle with on my personal projects this is the
stern kick in the pants many designers, devs, and product people who
fancy themselves entrepreneurs need to read. I did find the book a bit
repetitive though. It can all be summed up with "sell your product way
way way before its done".

**Thinking, Fast and Slow - Written by: Daniel Kahneman** - This books
seemed to be a good intro to psychology and how it relates economics. It
goes into a lot of basics on how your mind processes things and with a
little bit of creative mind hacking you can adapt your life to be a good
bit more productive, with out additional effort. Some people absolutely
love this book, but sadly I didn\'t get on the hype train. I liked it,
thought it was good, but stacked up against all of the great literature
in history, I wouldn\'t re-read this one.

**The Millionaire Real Estate Investor** -  Written by: Gary Keller,
Dave Jenks, Jay Papasan - Great intro on Real Estate investing. The book
dives into several different options and possibilities so you can chose
which ones fit your needs

**Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance** - Written by: Robert M.
Pirsig - Ramblings of the guy who feels America is past its prime who
believes cars are never as good as they were in 1960. I was so excited
to read the book, but sadly it didn\'t live up to the hype others gave
it.

**The Obstacle Is the Way: The Timeless Art of Turning Trials into
Triumph** -  Written by: Ryan Holiday - 2014, the year the word
"stoicism" entered my vernacular. I hope the resurgence of stoicism
finds its way to the main stream. This book is a great intro to some
basic concepts of making the best of your situation and keeping a more
positive attitude.

**Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products** - Written by: Nir
Eyal - Solid primer on how habits a formed, and solid learning
experience on why I subconsciously do certain things.

**A Clash of Kings: A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1** - Written by:
George R. R. Martin

**Investing in Real Estate, 6th Edition - Written by: Gary W. Eldred** -
As a newly minted "adult" I feel responsible (and interested) in what
exactly is going on with owning property. Although this tome isn\'t a
weekend read it didn\'t drag on as bad as I was expecting. It had a
little depth in a large spread of areas, so it doesn\'t get boring. I
felt that different areas were more beneficial at my point in life.

**The Game: Penetrating the Secret Society of Pickup** - Artists Written
by: Neil Strauss - fun, funny read. I don't know how much of it was is
true, but it was entertaining. The general premise is that its the story
of a guy who didn\'t feel comfortable talking to women, and by the end
he was a bonafide "pick up artist."

**The Number: A Completely Different Way to Think About the Rest of Your
Life** - Written by: Lee Eisenberg - As someone who is constantly
pushing myself to stock more money aside for the future I was looking
forward to a book that claims to be a new way to look at retirement and
what it takes to get there. Sadly I was I bit turned off by the state
retirement options for my generation. Previous generations have pushed
us into a bit of a corner, sadly we won't have entitled since for
retirement that our predecessors did. But I hear that every generation
feels that way about those that came before them, so I guess its nothing
new.

**The Richest Man in Babylon** - Written by: George S. Clason - The
Richest Man in Babylon is a repetitive story of saving more then you
make. I was recommended this book by several people, and I can see why.
I find myself preaching the idea of saving a little bit starting as soon
as you can. I think its a great start, but if you are more mustachian
and you can do better then the 10% they recommend!

**Don't Sweat the Small Stuff, and It's All Small Stuff** - Written by:
Richard Carlson - In a world of constant stress and worry this book was
a solid decompression. I can't say I have carried much of it with me
since reading the book, but was filled with lots of small tips and
tricks that helped me out a bunch while reading it, and shortly
afterwards.

**The Big Tiny: A Built-It-Myself Memoir** - Written by: Dee
Williams - I went (and am currently in) a bit of a lets explore tiny
house living kick. It was cool to hear someone else\'s point of view on
it, but like everyone on the tiny house hype train, its mostly positive
information, I think it will be something that I will just have to try.

**10% Happier: How I Tamed the Voice in My Head, Reduced Stress Without
Losing My Edge, and Found a Self-Help That Actually Works** - Written
by: Dan Harris - I really enjoyed Dan Harris' mental journey to find
happiness is his life. This book is unlike other self improvement books
in that its not about learning to be passive and okay with like, its
about being content, yet ambitious.

**The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right** - Written by: Atul
Gawande - Great examples of the benefits of checklists, I ended up
adapting it into a kanban board style of organization.

**The Art of War \[Blackstone Version\]** - Written by: Sun-Tzu,
translation by John Minford - I have always wanted to read this book,
finally jumped into it this year. I find myself remembering the lessons
at weirdly applicable times, but unable to recall them on command.

**The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves** - Written by: Matt
Ridley - The Rational Optimist is an eye opening book about how things
are going to be okay, even if I worry that everything around me is going
to fall apart, and I should buy rice in bulk.

**The Little Book That Still Beats the Market** - Written by: Joel
Greenblatt - This book teaches the basics of value investing, and with
its companion website it can be used as a starting regiment for single
stock investing. I am using this in conjunction with Robin Hood to try
my hand at it. I will let you know in 10 years how it does, so far its
way under-performing index funds, but only time will tell.

**Essential Manners for Men** - Written by Peter Post: Peter Post is a
descendant from the late great Emily Post, Queen of Etiquette. I really
enjoyed reading the book and learning what I should be doing, but I
quickly learned that I don't spend/have the money needed to have proper
manners. Peter Post describes a potluck he hosts where he is cooking
lobster and shrimp over warmed cannon balls at Martha's vineyard... it
really makes me feel out of touch as I am trying to figure out if its
rude to ask someone to bring wine to a couples dinner (turns out it is).

**Power of Less** - Written by Leo Babauto - I have been a long fan of
Leo Babauto, so it made me feel awesome to buy and read his book. Its
simple, yet powerful book. Since reading his advise about how to reduce
your life I have been able to accomplish a lot more in my day to day
life.

**7 habits of highly successful** people Written by Steven R. Covey - I
try and reread this book every year or every other year. If you haven't
read this classic I recommend picking up the cliff notes version.

**How to Win Friends & Influence People** - Written by Dale Carnegie - I
try and reread this book every year or every other year. If you haven't
read this classic I recommend picking up the cliff notes version.

**The Hobbit** - Written by J.R.R. Tolkien My mom read me this book when
I was 6 or 7, and although I remember some of it, I really wanted to
jump back reread the tale of the rare adventurous hobbit and his dwarf
friends. Putting this on the list outs me as not being as big into
fantasy novels as others think I am, but... It was a great book. A much
quicker read then the Lord of the Rings trilogy.

**The Hard Thing About Hard Things: Building a Business When There Are
No Easy Answers** - Written by Ben Horowitz - Recommended to me by the
CEO of my old company, I found "The Hard Thing About Hard Things" to be
a really entertaining tale of Ben Horowitz and his journey with
Loudcloud and Opsware. The part that was especially pertinent to me was
that even if you do everything right, the results you were hoping for
may be slower then you were thinking.
