---
author: Tyler
title: Genos
date: 2014-7-18
mainImg: /workimgs/genos-computer.jpg
description: Worked with a genetics company to build a direct to consumer product for sequencing their DNA and learning more about their genetic make up. 
---

### GENOS BACKGROUND

Complete Genomics is a company that provides human genome sequencing.
**Universal Mind** originally engaged Complete Genomics to build out an
interface that allows genetic researchers to visualize and annotate their
findings. They realized that much of the technology used to power this
researcher offering could power the back-end of a consumer product as well, and
so Complete Genomics partnered with Universal Mind to build Genos: a next
generation genetic insight platform for consumers similar to 23andMe or
Ancestry.com.

The platform allows users to get sequenced, explore their genetic data, share
that data with friends, and engage with researchers. Genos consists of 5 core
areas: Traits, Ancestry, the Explorer, Conditions, and Drug Response.

<div class="aside">
<div>

Genos sets its self apart from competition through simplicity, data privacy,
data portability, and ability to sequence your whole genome. Competitors only
sequence part of the genome (specifically the “exome”) and sell the user’s
genome to researchers themselves; On Genos customers own their genetic data,
choose for themselves whether to license it out, and benefit from research if
they do both financially and by getting personal reports on the latest findings
their information helped to uncover.

</div>
<div class="image">
    <img src="/workimgs/genos-tablet.png">
</div>
</div>

My role on this project started as a front end developer and UX specialist, but
over time grew into UX team lead.

### BUSINESS CHALLENGE

Complete Genomics Partnered with Universal Mind and frog design to build out a
consumer portal that would allow regular folks to visualize and understand the
information locked in their DNA through a new SAAS product called “Genos”

Genetic research is a young and fairly weak science. During the project
competitors were shut down, and the whole space was at risk for government
investigation for over-promising on uncertain correlations between specific
genetic conditions and a person’s DNA. Universal Mind had to navigate these
complications and provide value to both Complete Genomics and the user in this
design.

<div class="aside">
<div>

### Genomics is Confusing.

I get it — genomics is a relatively new science, and most people haven’t
reviewed ”genetics 101” since high school biology.

Our challenge in this application was to make genetic information accessible,
educational and intuitive. frog design had the task of designing out the user’s
landing page and Universal Mind got to tackle the “Genome Explorer”, where the
user could get deep into the weeds of their genetic data.

We were instructed not to pull any punches — prior research had shown that there
was a place in the market for a detailed and advanced personal genome
exploration project, and that’s what our stakeholders intended Genos to become.

</div>
<div class="image">

<img src="/workimgs/genos-explorer.png">

</div>
</div>

### Giving Context

Your DNA consists of 3 billion base pairs which reside in 23 pairs of
chromosomes, This is a lot of data to expose to a user at a single point in
time. To help users understand how chromosomes, genes, and DNA all relate, the
explorer uses HTML5 and CSS3 animation and transformation to walk a user through
their genome and explain each step along the way from their full genome down to
a single base-pair of DNA.

### KAROGRAM AND DETAILS

As users explore their way through the genome they can transition at any time
between the highly-visual “explorer” mode and more structured “detail” pages
that read a bit more like text books and give more detailed information.

From the detail page a user has the ability to see how any piece of genetic
information influences their body, the latest research, or what others in the
community with similar traits are experiencing.

One of our biggest design challenges was helping the user maintain context
during the switch between the “explorer” and “detail” modes. To accomplish this
we again relied on finely-tuned in-browser animation to help the user understand
how an object in one mode transitioned into the other. We wireframed each state
of these animations and had the design and development teams work together
closely to ensure we got it right.

Good UX design helps a user make sense of complicated information without
undermining the complexity or losing any of the information.

<div class="aside">
<div>

### Simplifying the complex

To help users unfamiliar with genetics make sense of the interface and learn the
terminology we built a first time user “tour” through the system.

Before taking the tour very far we knew we needed some feedback from our users.
Was this the right way to help them understand the system? Would any of them
even notice that the tour was available?

To answer these questions, the tour was quickly prototyped using rough
grey-scale windows (shown here) and tested with folks in the target demographic
over a period of two days.

</div>
<div class="image">

<img src="/workimgs/genos-tour.png">

</div>
</div>

### DESIGN SYSTEM

Over the course of the project Universal Mind worked with frog design to create
a uniformed design language that stayed consistent and impactful across mediums
including other websites and even the physical packaging of your sequencing kit.

From its bold and swooping gradients and visual elements, to its personal and
impactful photography the goal of making complicated and potentially scary
information accessible and consumable. The design was built to convey the trust
and security that comes with a clinic, with the approachability that is expected
as standard with high-end online experiences.

<div class="aside">
<div>

### RESEARCH

During the project we quickly ran into concerns that the subject material was
far too complicated for a unguided trip through the app. We built out a quick
tour through the app that walked through some of the key features of the
interface. To test our hypothesis that the tour would be both beneficial and
sufficient we conducted a quick guerrilla research study ver a period of two
days. Here a few slides from our findings are shown.

The study focused on having users talk through their understanding of the
homepage, see if they could complete some simple tasks, and see if they ever
found or even looked for the “start tour” button.

In the end we had many interesting findings. As for the tour, no one found it.
We opted for the quick-fix of re-styling the top affordances and having the
tour’s first welcome window launch automatically for first time users, and then
animate back into its “start tour” state to indicate how it could be accessed
again.

Utilizing our experience doing frequent quick research studies we were able to
make small changes before problems got too large to fix.

</div>
<div class="image">

<img src="/workimgs/genos-research1.png">
<img src="/workimgs/genos-research2.png">
<img src="/workimgs/genos-research3.png">
<img src="/workimgs/genos-research4.png">

</div>
</div>

### ANCESTRY

While scientific information about how your genes work is important, most
consumers are more concerned with how it impacts their bodies: physical traits,
genetic conditions, and understanding their heritage.

We built a platform that is immediately useful but also scales as the scientific
community unlocks more information about the human genome.

These areas also brought us face to face with the FDA and the regulations around
making to strong of claims between the links of genetic data, and its correlated
health risks.

### How the project lives on

Universal Mind took this project from an idea living under Complete Genomics to
a stand alone product with its own fundings, management, named Genos. In April
2017 NantOmics purchased Genos for its technical expertise, discovery/research
tools, and data visualization.

To read our wired article visit
https://www.wired.com/2016/12/genos-will-sequence-genes-help-sell-science/
